This is a really brief introduction to
GitHub.
Git is a version control software that
allows you to control and
manage the revisions of projects that
you're working on locally on your
computer.
And as such, it's a very useful piece of
software on its own.
But GitHub is a more recent website that's
been developed.
It allows for you to collaborate on
projects together at a bigger scale.
And it's really where the power of Git
comes into play.
So GitHub is a web -based hosting service
for software development
that uses Git revis, revision control as
sort of a driving force.
And so what it allows you to do is
contribute to projects online And to have
your projects posted online so that other
people
can see them and contribute to them as
well.
[SOUND] So, basically what it does is it
allows users to push and
pull their local repository, so things
that you got under bit, or bit,
version control in Git on your local
computer, it allows you to put
Push them and pull them to remote
repositories that are on the web.
It also provides users with a home page
that displays all of their repositories.
And the repositories that you have on
GitHub are backed up
on the server in case something happens to
your local ca, copies.
But the real key aspect of GitHub is the
social aspect and so the social aspect
allows users to follow one another and to
share projects
and to contribute to each other's projects
and so that's really the power of GitHub.
One of the things that we noticed bout
GitHub is that often
when you see somebody else's work You can
sort of learn what
they're working on, how their code works,
and it's a great way
to sort of identify people who would be
good to work with.
And we've also found that when we put
projects on the web, other people will
often
contribute, you know, for free, just
because they're
interested in how they can make the
software better.
So the first thing that you need to do is
go
set up a GitHub account now that you have
Git installed.
And so, you'll need to enter a username,
email, a password, and click sign up for
GitHub.
[SOUND] An important note here is that you
should use
the same email address that you used when
you signed up
for Git in the previous lecture so that
it, you'll
be able to have the two pieces of software
work together.
On the next screen you're going to click
the
free plan and then click finish sign up.
And then you'll be signed up for a GitHub
account.
[SOUND] This is a required component of
the class is having a GitHub account.
It's free, so it's not, it shouldn't be a
problem.
After signing up, you will find yourself
on this page,
which has several helpful resources for
learning about Git and GitHub.
I suggest that you read those tutorials,
as they're more in depth than
what we'll be able to cover in this class,
and they're incredibly useful.
If you click up here on your username in
the upper
right hand corner up there, you can see
your GitHub profile.
So, see all the projects that you
currently have,
which when you start your account, wont be
many.
Your profile will show all of your
activity from GitHub.
It'll also show other people who you are
and what you're working on.
So, you can fill out information
about what kind of projects you're
interested in.
[INAUDIBLE] our plan is for this course is
to use this GitHub
Profile as the place that you can sort of
build a profile.
Which is a portfolio of the work that
you've
developed that shows off your skills as a
data scientist.
[SOUND] If you click edit your profile,
the right hand
portion of the screen you can add basic
information about yourself.
It's totally optional, so you don't have
to do that at all.
But if you're doing good work, so for
example, if in the course of this class
you
create interesting data science products
and ideas, you
want to be able to take credit for that.
In the next lecture, we'll talk you
through how you actually
create a repository, a repo, and put it up
on GitHub.
In the meantime, definitely explore the
documentation on the
GitHub site because it gives you lots of
different information.
That will help you when you're doing
virtual control ad when you're working
with GitHub.